Hello and welcome to your first WordPress theme project this project will be a little different than
the rest because it's going to be sort of an introductory project I'm going to show you how to install
and set up WordPress so that you can have a fresh installation to work with.
Now we will be creating a theme but we'll be focusing more on the code and the overall look than the
overall look and style.
All right.
So creating the files and folders where and what php the code to add things like that.
I want to get you familiarized with the p code and then after that we can add some simple style.
Now as far as an environment there's a lot of different ways you can run WordPress you may have your
own server set up if you don't you can use something like amps which is what I'll be using.
Gives you an Apache server ph P and my s.
Q Well all on your local machine zapper X samples is very similar.
You could use that you could use wimp.
There's also map for Mac.
There's a lot of different choices but if you want to use amps like I am you can go to amps dot com
.
Just go ahead and download it.
It's available for Windows Mac and Linux.
Pretty easy to get set up.
All right.
Now I don't have WordPress installed so we're going to go through and do that together although most
of you probably already know how to do this.
OK.
So I'm at Wordpress dot org going to go ahead and download the package and I'm going to go to my server
route.
If you're using amps it should be should be in your C drive or you or your root drive.
And in amps and actually you know what I think the default is in your program files.
But I set it up in my drive in amps and then there's a WDW folder that's the hosting route.
So I'm going to create a folder here called W.P. themes.
And that's going to be the folder that I'm going to install WordPress in.
All right so let me just open up my downloads in search going to grab the word press package.
Open that up and then just take everything from there into the project folder.
OK so now we have the files.
Now before we do anything here we need a database a minuscule database.
If you installed amps are you using Samper or something like that.
Then you most likely have Pietsch PMI admin that's what we'll be using.
So you can go to a local host.
What should be local host org.
That's weird.
We're going to go to HTP local host slash ph P my address.
OK.
And now we go to databases.
We're going to create a new database.
And I call it W.P. themes create case.
Now we have an empty database.
Now we're going to go back to the files that we created or that we brought over from the Wordpress package
and you should have this W.P. config sample speech.
Well we want to do is rename this to just W.P. config.
You want to get rid of the dash sample.
All right and then we're going to open that up and I'll be using sublime text as my editor.
You can use whatever editor that you feel comfortable with.
So what we're going to do here is change some things or add some things the D-B name.
We're going to put right here which in my case is W.P. themes theme's the DBI user My user is root and
the password you want to put whatever your password for your databases.
All right the rest can stay the same.
We're going to go ahead and save that.
And then we should be able to go to
co-host slash W.P. things.
OK.
So now we can go ahead and run the installation site title.
I'm just going to call W.P. actually just say a word press dev admin.
You want to choose your password.
I mean using a very weak password email
and install word press.
OK.
So success.
Let's click on the log in that will take us to the admin log in and quote your username and password
in and it'll take you to your back end.
OK we can go and say visit site.
Open that in a new tab.
And we have a brand new WordPress site.
OK so this is what we'll be working with.
So I'm sure you guys a lot of you guys have experience with wordpress.
Basically we have our post area here where we can create and manage posts where we can have our categories
pages.
So these are just Web site pages like let's say about us or services things like that I would go here
if we go to appearance and we click on themes that shows us the installed themes.
By default we have 2014 2015 and 2016 which is the the one that's enabled but we will be creating a
new theme in the next video.
OK so we'll get to that next.